petitioner: Kellogg Brown & Root Services, Inc.
respondent: United States, ex rel. Benjamin Carter
facts: In early 2005, Benjamin Carter worked for Kellogg Brown & Root ( KBR ), a you. S. Government contractor providing logistical services to the you. S. military in Iraq. In 2006, Carter filed a whistleblower suit against KBR for illegal billing practices under the False Claims Act ( FCA ). Carter alleged that KBR had a standing policy of carrying out fraudulent time sheets and thus overbilling the you. S. Government for services rendered in Iraq. In 2010, just before trial, the you. S. Government informed the parties of a complaint that was filed earlier and alleging similar claims. The district court ruled that the earlier suit is related to Carter ’ s complaint and dismissed the suit under the FCA ’ s “ first - to - file ” requirement, which bars a suit if a prior one is pending. In 2011, Carter withdrew his complaint, and KBR moved to dismiss by arguing that the latest complaint was filed after the FCA ’ s six - year statute of limitations had expired, and Carter ’ s complaint did not satisfy the first - to - file requirements because there was yet another related matter filed. The district court dismissed Carter ’ s complaint, but the you. S Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit reversed. The appellate court held that the Wartime Suspension of Limitations Act ( WSLA ), which provides the applicable six - year statute of limitations, only applies to criminal charges and, because the remaining related cases had since been dismissed, there was no pending related matter to prevent Carter ’ s claim from proceeding.

Marvel Enterprises, Inc.
Stephen Kimble, et al.
In 1990, Stephen Kimble obtained a patent for a Spider - Man toy that was set to expire in May 2010. Kimble claimed that he discussed the idea with the president of Marvel Enterprises Inc., and that he would be compensated for use of his ideas. Although no agreement was reached, Marvel produced a model that was similar to Kimble's design. In 1997, Kimble sued under patent protection, and the parties settled in 2001, with Marvel agreeing to purchase the patent and pay royalties to the petitioner without an expiration date. The case was subsequently dismissed. In 2006, Marvel entered a licensing agreement with Hasbro Inc. that gave it the right to produce the toy. Disagreements arose between Kimble and Marvel concerning the royalty payments, and Kimble claimed that the original patent would be infringed if royalties were not paid. Kimble sued Marvel in Arizona state court, and the case was then removed to the federal district court. The magistrate judge determined that settlement agreements was a " hybrid " agreement, in which patent and non - patent rights were inseparable, and that the Supreme Court decision in Brulotte v. Thys Co. applied. In that case, the Court ruled that, when patents are sold in return for a royalty payment, the purchaser was not obligated to continue these payments beyond the expiration date of the patents because doing so would over - compensate the seller of the patent and improperly extend the patent monopoly beyond their intended time limit. On recommendation of the magistrate, the district court granted summary judgment in favor of Marvel and ruled that the settlement agreement transferred patent rights, but that it was unclear if non - patent rights were transferred. Kimble sued and argued that the settlement agreement transferred both patent and non - patent rights and that, while royalty payments ended in the patent, they did not end for the toy itself. The you. S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the decision of the district,.